Resource Strings and Localization
=================================

By convention, AtomiaStore uses the `App_GlobalResources\Common.resx` file and derived theme files and translations for all changable resource strings and translations except some validation messages, which are located in `CustomerValidation.resx`.

File Structure
--------------

An example file structure with themes and translations:

    App_GlobalResources/
        MyTheme/
            MyThemeCommon.resx
            MyThemeCommon.de-DE.resx
            MyThemeCustomerValidation.resx
            MyThemeCustomerValidation.de-DE.resx
        Common.resx
        Common.de-DE.resx
        CustomerValidation.resx
        CustomerValidation.de-DE.resx
        

The example above has the default English resource strings in the `resx` files without language code, and default German localization in the `*.de-DE.resx` files.

The theme resource files must be located in a directory with the same name as the theme, and must also be prefixed with that name, `MyTheme` in this example.

**Note**: Only the theme specific files should be changed when implementing a custom theme.


Adding or Overriding *Default* Resource Strings
-----------------------------------------------

When you start a new theme, empty resource files are added to the theme for all default (English) and localized `resx` files that are available in the *Default* theme. You can use these files to add your own resource strings, or override resource strings from the *Default* theme.

**Note:** You should only ever add resource strings to your theme `resx` files that are *not available* in the *Default* theme files, or that you want to *override*. Just adding the same content as in the *Default* theme `resx` files means you will not get the benefits of any spelling corrections or other improvements to the *Default* files.


Special Resource String
-----------------------

Some resource strings in `Common.resx` and derived files have a specific *Name* or *Value* format. These are annotated with comments in the `Common.resx` file in the *Default* theme.

E.g. language names are located via *Name* keys on the form `<LanguageTag>_name` and `<LanguageTag>_shortname`: `EN_name` - *English*, `EN_shortname` - *EN*, `FR_name` - *French*, `FR_shortname` - *FR* etc.


Using Resources in Views
------------------------

The recommended way of using resources from `Common.resx` in views is to use the `@Html.CommonResource`, `@Html.CommonResourceRaw` and `@Html.CommonResourceJs` HTML-helpers, which will output escaped, unescaped and JavaScript expression ready strings respectively. This will automatically located the string *Name* in the correct `resx` file, *Default* or from theme. The HTML-helpers are defined in `Atomia.Store.WebBase.HtmlHelpers.CommonResourcesHelper` and are implicitly imported in all views by default. 

Example usage:

    @Html.CommonResource("AccountTitle")

JavaScript objects or JSON available via the `Atomia` namespace should also have any relevant properties already translated before being sent from or generated by the server, e.g. product names and descriptions.

Using Resources in .NET Code Via `IResourceProvider`
----------------------------------------------------

The recommended way of using resources in backend .NET code is to use the `Atomia.Store.Core.IResourceProvider`. It has a default implementation `Atomia.Store.WebBase.Adapters.ResourceProvider` that fetches resources from `Common.resx` and related localization and theme files. 
